So we ended the previous video with
completing the challenge, but I also want
to talk about something else
just before we finish off and move on to the next thing.
That is, if you do find that you need to store the
original time zone info for a time,
then either use an external library,
but you can also do it like this,
which we're about to show you.
Definitely don't be tempted to store your localised times.
Always work in UTC, then convert when you need
to display or print the local times.
So let's assume that we decide to just store ACTD
in a column instead of pickling the TZ info object.
We should then be able to create
a new TZ info for that time zone.
Let's actually have a go at doing that.
I'm just going to comment these two lines out
that pickles and score zone in the zone.
Let's see whether we can do that.
We're going to put zone is equal to PYTZ.timezone
and let's put in CET.
CET is Central European Time.
Abbreviate it to CET.
If we try running that
you'll see that the times are showing as CET time,
which is one hour ahead of Greenwich Mean Time
this time of year.
That works fine.
You might be asking at this point,
"Well, why didn't I just store the strings
CET in the database?"
Well, the reason for that is
that the time zone info's name
can't be reliably used to create a new time zone object.
CET is now one of the few that can,
which is why I've used it here as an example.
If I change this back to ACDT,
Australian Central Dialect Time,
and run this you can see we actually get an error.
There are a few flaws and omissions in the date time
in PYTZ libraries, and unfortunately
this is one of them.
You know, I can make the programme work
by changing the string,
instead of ACDT, Australian Central Dialect Time,
I can type in Australia slash Adelaide and run that.
We can see that correctly there works,
and we're getting the plus 10 30 again offset.
What you actually get returned when
the default time zone is used can vary,
not just from one operating system to another
but also on different versions of
the same operating system.
It would have been a nice solution,
but unfortunately it won't work.
You probably have found it
very frustrating discovering that.
Had you been in Central Europe,
you wouldn't have discovered the problem
unless you tested on a computer
in a different time zone.
If you'd chosen EST to test time,
you still wouldn't have seen the problem
because EST will work just as the CET time zone worked.
Okay, so we've covered quite a lot
since we created our accounts class.
I've focused on dates and times a lot,
but the techniques aren't just
restricted to time information.
For example, using SQL-like functions
and queries is a great technique,
and you'll find a list of
the core functions on this page.
I'll just bring that up in a browser.
There's some good core functinos there for SQL Light.
There's also this link here to date and time functions.
We've seen that before,
and also aggregate functions as well.
It can be useful to check those out.
I've also seen how to store a complete object
in a database column by pickling it
and that can be very handy where it's appropriate.
Now, the antenna J database field makes life
a lot easier when writing database code
as you don't have to keep switching
into a terminal to check the
state of your database tables.
We also had it to have a look at
how to work with monetary amounts
and financial applications so that
we don't get strange rounding errors,
which would be totally unacceptable
in a financial programme.
There have been a few digressions on our way
to writing back transactions,
but the examples that we're using
are now more like real-world problems.
Let's end the video here, and in the next one
we'll finally get around to
rolling back database transactions.
See you in the next video.